Gideon Levy is a columnist at the
Israeli newspaper haret you're joining
us from uh Tel Aviv Gideon your reaction
to the shutdown uh by the Israeli
government of aljazera in
Israel what a shame what a shame to be
an Israeli and an Israeli journalist on
such a day what a shame to be an Israeli
when my country is closing
down such important networks like El
jazer English and El jaaz Arabic only
because some politicians do not like
what's being informed there I can tell
you as a viewer as a news consumer not
as a commentator and not as a writer
that for me the last seven
months El jazer English was one of the
most if not the most source of
information about what's going on in
Gaza because Israeli TV doesn't show
anything from Gaza and El jazer English
was such a reliable and and enriching
source of information for me as a
citizen not as a as a writer to close
this down means to close down the option
of Free Press in Israel not less than
this Gideon what's behind this if
Benjamin
Netanyahu had wanted to shut down Al
jazer he probably could have done so far
earlier in this war right we're moving
into the almost the eth month of the war
why is this happening now and what's
behind the
decision so there are two things why now
and why at all at all as usual in Israel
everything is focused at the domestic
politics and the base likes it if you
fail in the battlefield at least you can
you can win in another Arena namely to
close down an Arab intern
Network they love it the the right wiers
in Israel here we show the Arabs in
their in their language how strong we
are and how courageous and devoted we
are and and by the way to point out the
obvious correct me if I'm wrong but that
you say the bass loves it the Bas
netanyahu's Bas does not watch aljaz I
think is pretty safe to say so they're
they love the shutting down of a network
that they don't
watch absolutely
absolutely they don't watch and they
don't want to watch but they want to see
it beaten so if you can't beat Kamas at
least you beat a jazer so that's one
sentiment about the timing I have my
suspicion but this is not based that the
timing has to do with the deal because
finally Al jazer is a katari network and
Scatter is one of those who is pulling
and pushing for a settlement for a deal
and Nan is doing in the last two or
three days anything possible to sabotage
a deal and this might be connected so
I'm trying I want to make sure I
understand uh this this hypothesis here
that you're explaining you're saying
maybe Netanyahu is trying to
pressure uh Qatar by shutting down Al
jazer in the context of qatar's
mediation on the seesar
deal absolutely and by the way the
Qatari mediation was a reason why he
postponed this decision for so long
because the Americans or the Qatari
directly or through the
Americans put pressure on Nan not to
close it down but now when he feels that
there is a chance for a deal he goes for
an option let's destroy everything
including eler okay you mentioned that
this is good for netanyahu's base so I
understand the political benefit to him
I would surmise that there is also a
long-term political cost not just for
Netanyahu but for Israel in general when
you shut down an international news
network you know even the White House
was talking about freedom of the press
and their concerns over this when the
law was passed a month ago when you shut
this down it becomes that much harder to
say that you're a very healthy and
robust
democracy and when you kill 13,000
children there is no thinking for the
long term now ever since the 7th of
October Israel is not thinking in any
long terms in any long terms do they
have any plan for the day after do they
know what they want from Gaza do they
know what is a total Victory I mean we
are in the last seven months led by a
government without any plan without any
consideration about the consequences of
its policies it's only from today today
to please the base and to survive in
power one final question because you
were saying earlier going back to what
you said at the beginning of of your
first answer I think it was you said you
know in the Israeli media you don't see
the War uh you don't get the information
that you get when you watch aljazera
what so what does the war look like as
seen and as presented by Israeli media
to
Israelis very very simple picture we are
the victims we are the only victims as
usual there was the 7th of October and
we will stick to the seventh of October
which was almost the Holocaust in the
eyes of most of is of the Israelis and
this seventh of October enable us and
legitimize us to do whatever we want in
Gaza Gaza doesn't interest us Gaza is
Hamas and Hamas is Gaza and therefore we
should punish them all and if possible
even kill them all destroy them all and
and we will we have no interest to see
what's the suffer of Gaza what's the
punishment of Gaza what's the innocent
people of Gaza are going through we are
only interested in the brave Soldiers
the hostages and the victims of the 7th
of October that's our world and that's
the world that the Israeli media as a
whole is describing to its viewers for
seven months now seven days a week 24
hours a day only this you don't see Gaza
I just want to add one one sentence with
your permission my news pep haret is
Will publish tomorrow its leader about
against the decision to close down and
jazer it's a very sharp and and very
clear message that we are against
it okay uh I'll be reading you I'll I'll
be reading that and I do read you as a
columnist in haret Gideon pleasure
talking to you today as
ever thank you very much for having
me make sure to subscribe to our channel
to get the latest news from Al jazer